Title: Practice TDD (Test-driven development) for the simple calculator application.
Problem description: Students are expected to write small part of the calculator program 
ex-adding functionality. 
❖ Student should run the code to test the add functionality using testing frameworks
like Pytest, Junit test code parallelly.
❖ Next functionality is parallelly developed and tested.
Aim: 
To develop a simple calculator using the Test-Driven Development approach by writing test 
cases first and then implementing the functionality.
Software / Tools Required
1. Python / Java
2. Testing Framework: Pytest or JUnit
3. Jira for task management
4. Any IDE (VS Code / IntelliJ / Eclipse)
(Advice to write a python or java code for calculator function like add, subtract, multiply 
and divide only without any bugs – store it in your GitHub folder as Experiment Number 
4)
About TDD (Test-Driven Development): 
Jira Statis
❖ To Do - an use case/test case
❖ In Progress - of use case
❖ Done - the use case
TDD is simple: write a test code → see it fail → write code again→ see it pass → repeat
for another test.
TDD Cycle: Students must follow Red → Green → Refactor.
Red Means → Write Test First, fail it
Green Means → Pass It
Refactor Means → go to another use case
Step 1 – Create Project in JIRA
1. Login to JIRA.
2. Create a new project named Calculator-TDD.
3. Create the following issues:
❖ User Story 1: Implement Addition.
❖ User Story 2: Implement Subtraction.
❖ User Story 3: Implement Multiplication.
❖ User Story 4: Implement DivisionStep 2 – Create Development Task
1. Under User Story 1, create a task:
❖ Write test case for Add function.
2. Move the task to To Do in the board.
Step 3 – Write Test First (RED Stage)
Example using Pytest
// python Code
from calculator import add
def test_add():
 assert add(2,3) = = 5
Run the test.
// Expected Result: Test fails because the function is not implemented.
❖ This confirms the RED stage.
❖ Update JIRA task status as In Progress.
Step 4 – Write Minimal Code (GREEN Stage)
Create the calculator program.
// python Code
def add(a,b):
 return a+b
Run the test again.
//Expected Result: Test passes.
❖ This confirms the GREEN stage.
❖ Update JIRA task status as Done.
Step 5 – Refactor the Code
Improve code structure if needed.
Example:
def add(a:int,b:int)->int:
return a+b
❖ Run tests again to ensure they still pass.
Step 6 – Repeat TDD for Next Function
Create new JIRA task:
Task: Implement Subtraction
Follow same cycle:
1. Write test case first
2. Run test → Fail
3. Write code
4. Run test → Passdef test_subtract():
assert subtract(5,3) == 2
Step 7 – Continue for Remaining Operations
Repeat the cycle for:
❖ Multiplication
❖ Division
Track each task in JIRA board workflow:
❖ To Do
❖ In Progress
❖ Done
Expected Output
1. Calculator program with four operations:
❖ Add
❖ Subtract
❖ Multiply
❖ Divide
2. Unit test cases executed successfully.
3. All tasks completed in JIRA board.
Advantages of TDD:
❖ Most beginners hate writing tests first (to overcome it)
❖ Encourages Incremental Development
❖ Integrates Well with Agile Development (Adopt changes)
Result
The simple calculator application was successfully developed using the TDD (Test-Driven 
Development) methodology, where test cases were written before implementing the program 
logic and verified using automated testing frameworks.